# The monk and the cup of tea

Author remembers a scene from his past as if it was yesterday.

It was when he was pursuing his business studies in Canada. After the school, he would often camp at a quite coffee shop nearby with his books and no internet.

```text
Author was very ambitious. He was obsessed with productivity. He wanted his life to be as productive as possible. Getting more done in less time was one of his goal. He would devote time reading books and learning how to be more productive.
```

One fine afternoon, Chris was sitting at the same coffee shop with his books and stuff. He noticed a monk sitting around the corner wearing an orange robe from top to bottom. While Chris was busy reading books, highlighting important stuff and making notes, the monk was sitting quietly, meditatively sipping his tea. For over an hour, he did nothing but sip on that tea. After an hour he went to the counter and got himself another cup and drank it as slowly as he could savouring every single sip.

Author was deeply shocked. What a complete and utter waste of time and energy, he thought to himself. While author spend his time reading books flipping pages after pages, highlighting important stuff and making notes, All monk achieved was a belly full of tea.

It was later in his life author realized that the monk sitting their was not wasting his time. He was building his capacity for the important stuff. And in many ways, he was more productive than the author himself even though it did not seem like.
