## 35 hours of meditation

Though productivity was the only interest of the author, he didn't take up meditation for that reason.
It was during his college days when he stumbled upon meditation while reading a book about managing stress.

He started practicing meditation to reduce his stress levels. He started with 5 mins a day and gradually increased it to 30 mins.

This practice proved very fruitful to the author.

After practicing meditation for quite a while, Author got really curious and started reading more books about meditation and stuff. He started devoting more time to meditation.

But because of his obsession with productivity, author felt conflict of interests.
He thought meditation and productivity are as different as it can get. Productivity means getting more done whereas meditation is drawing your attention inwards and doing as little as possible. He thought meditation is about slowing down whereas productivity is speeding up.

So, his interest in productivity won and he stopped meditating entirely and devoted all his time to boosting productivity.

In the upcoming weeks, after he stopped meditating completely, he noticed several strange things.

- His energy and motivation began declining.
- He became less focused as his mind wandered more often against his will. Because of this his work took longer to do.
- He worked more often on autopilot mode in response to the tasks that came his way instead of intentionally setting a course on what he should work on.
- He became distracted far more easily.
- He procastinated far more and spent far more time on pointless tasks and began resisting tasks that were actually important.

In short, he not only became stressed out but he started working differently after he stopped meditating.

Observing all this author thought of conducting an experiment where he would meditate for 5 hrours a day to see what difference does it makes.

Very quickly He noticed reversal of the negative effects.

Throught this experiment, author realized there is some serious connection between meditation and productivity.

Meditation not only impacts our mental well bieng but it also affects the way we function, the way we work and much more.
