# Introduction

## The monk and the cup of tea

Chris Bailey remembers a scene from his past. It was when he was pursuing his business studies in Canada. After the classes, he would often camp at a quite coffee shop nearby with his productivity books and no internet.

He was obsessed with productivity. He wanted his life to be as productive as possible. Getting more done in less time was one of his goal.

One fine afternoon, Chris was sitting at the same coffee shop with his books and stuff. He noticed a monk sitting around the corner. While Chris was busy reading books, highlighting important stuff and making notes, the monk was sitting quietely meditatively sipping his tea. For over an hour, he did nothing but sip on that tea. After an hour he got himself another cup and drank it as slowly as he could savouring every single sip.

Author though what a complete and utter waste of time and energy he thought to himself. These couple of hours, he could have achieved significantly more that just sipping tea but he chose not to.

## 35 hours of meditation

Author took up the practice of meditation when he was reading about ways to manage stress. In a nutshell, meditation simply means focusing on your breath or some other object of meditation for a predetermined amount of time. Everytime your mind gets lost in thoughts, which it constantly will, draw your attention back to it.

This practice proved very fruitful to the author.

After practicing meditation for quite a while, Author got really curious and started reading more books about meditation and stuff. He started devoting more time to meditation.

But because of his obsession with productivity, author felt conflict of interests.
He thought meditation and productivity are as different as it can get. Productivity means getting more done whereas meditation is drawing your attention inwards and doing as little as possible. He thought meditation is about slowing down whereas productivity is speeding up.

So, his interest in productivity won and he stopped meditating entirely and devoted all his time to boosting productivity.

In the upcoming weeks, after he stopped meditating completely, he noticed several strange things which were

- His energy and motivation began declining.
- He became less focused as his mind wandered more often against his will. Because of this his work took longer to do.
- He worked more often on autopilot mode in response to the tasks that came his way instead of intentionally setting a course on what he should work on.
- He became distracted far more easily.
- He procastinated far more and spent far more time on pointless tasks and began resisting tasks that were actually important.

In short, he not only became stressed out but he started working differently because he stopped meditating.

Observing all this author thought of conducting an experiment where he would meditate for 5 hrours a day to see what difference it will have.

Very quickly He noticed reversal of the negative effects.

Throught this experiment, author realized there is some serious connection between meditation and productivity.
